OSDOCS-5288:Exporting flow data to Kafka (#56335)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-enriched-flows-kafka.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/understanding-network-observability-operator.adoc

:_content-type: Procedure
[id="network-observability-enriched-flows-kafka_{context}"]
= Export enriched network flow data

You can send network flows to Kafka, so that they can be consumed by any processor or storage that supports Kafka input, such as Splunk, Elasticsearch, or Fluentd,

.Prerequisites
* Installed Kafka

.Procedure

. Edit the `FlowCollector` to configure `spec.exporters` as follows:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  exporters:
  - type: KAFKA
      kafka:
        address: "kafka-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.netobserv"
        topic: netobserv-flows-export   <1>
----

> <1> NetObserv exports all flows to the configured Kafka topic.

Reviewer: It's confusing to have two "1." which looks like it's part of an outline and a "\<1>" in the YAML.  Can it look something like this?
[https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/logging/cluster-logging-loki.html#logging-loki-retention_cluster-logging-loki](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/logging/cluster-logging-loki.html#logging-loki-retention_cluster-logging-loki)  
  
This uses a black circle with a white font to explain items in the manifest.  It also has better colors.

Author: These "<1>" render as a black circle with white font. In my preview link, you can see this:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77501157/229617117-98e5a25e-8b72-4195-a82e-5bba02348b3c.png)

> . Next, flows data can be sent to an available output in a JSON format. 

Reviewer: What about providing information on how this can be done in Web Console and the FlowCollector resource?

Author: @stleerh Is there a way users can export flows using the Web Console?

Reviewer: There are a few parameters in the `kafka` section when you create FlowCollector.

Reviewer: When you create a FlowCollector resource, you are able to configure this in the form view.  Do we want to show this?

Author: I think the opportunity to show this would be in the Installation section, where we have the list of items to select in form view. We could add an optional list item there.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/understanding-network-observability-operator.adoc

:_content-type: Procedure
[id="network-observability-enriched-flows-kafka_{context}"]
= Export enriched network flow data

> You can store network flows in Kafka. 

Reviewer 2: `store` is not really suited here I think; maybe `send` or `export` ? Or maybe something like: `You can send network flows to Kafka, so that they can be consumed by any processor or storage that supports Kafka input.` ?

> You can send network flows to Kafka, so that they can be consumed by any processor or storage that supports Kafka input, such as Splunk, Elastic, or Fluentd,

Reviewer 2: As you've found out it's ElasticSearch (the product), not Elastic (the company)

Author: Aw dangit! I thought I changed this after I asked you about it. Thanks for noting it.

.Prerequisites
* Installed Kafka

> * The `FlowCollector` `spec.agent` is set to `Kafka`.

Reviewer 2: I missed that, this is wrong, there's no such requirement on `spec.agent`.
Just having installed Kafka. And then, configuring the `exporters` as explained below

.Procedure

. Edit the `FlowCollector` to configure `spec.exporters` as follows:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:

> exporters:

Reviewer 2: (and thank yaml for being so picky with indentation 🙄 )

    - type: KAFKA
      kafka:
        address: "kafka-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.netobserv"

>         topic: netobserv-flows-export   <1>

Reviewer 2: I think there are extra spaces here to remove (yaml is picky about that). The dash from `- type` should be at the same column than the `n` from `name: cluster` above

----

> <1> NetObserv exports all flows to the Kafka server on the provided topic name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> NetObserv exports all flows to the configured Kafka topic
```

> . Next, flows data are sent to an available output, such as Splunk, Elastic, or FluentID, in a JSON format. See the next topic, Network Flows format specifications for more information. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe `flows data can be sent` rather than `flow data are sent` (else, it suggests that this is something NetObserv does on its own, which it doesn't.
Also, it's `Fluentd` not `FluentID`.
@stleerh any opinion on which examples of output we can provide there? I think it's good to mention splunk or elastic, maybe others as well, it could be driven by what we hear customers are interested in

Author: Sure, makes sense to me. I can see the difference. Also, 🤦‍♀️ to adding the "I". Thanks. 
Also is Elastic just Elastic or is it Elasticsearch? 

I think the RFE for this epic specifically mentions that the customer wishes to use splunk. I guess, are next steps here to provide JSON formatting that is catered to a specific output of our choosing?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/configuring-operator.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-enriched-flows-kafka_{context}"]
= Export enriched network flow data

You can send network flows to Kafka, so that they can be consumed by any processor or storage that supports Kafka input, such as Splunk, Elasticsearch, or Fluentd.

.Prerequisites
* Installed Kafka

.Procedure

. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for the *NetObserv Operator*, select *Flow Collector*. 
. Select *cluster* then select the *YAML* tab.
. Edit the `FlowCollector` to configure `spec.exporters` as follows:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  exporters:
  - type: KAFKA
      kafka:
        address: "kafka-cluster-kafka-bootstrap.netobserv"
        topic: netobserv-flows-export   <1>
        tls: 
          enable: false                 <2>
  
----
<1> The Network Observability Operator exports all flows to the configured Kafka topic.

> <2> You can encrypt all communications to and from Kafka with TLS or mTLS. When enabled, the Kafka CA certificate must be available as a ConfigMap or a Secret, both in the namespace where the flowlogs-pipeline processor component is deployed (default: netobserv). It must be referenced with spec.exporters.tls.caCert. When using mTLS, client secrets must be available in these namespaces as well (they can be generated for instance using the AMQ Streams User Operator) and referenced with spec.exporters.tls.userCert.

Reviewer 4: SSL/TLS

> . Next, flows data can be sent to an available output in a JSON format. For more information, see _Network flows format reference_

Reviewer 4: s/ Next / After configuration, network flows data can be. . . 

maybe? 

you also need a period after reference_.
